docs(rfc): pixi global proposal (#1757)
prefix-dev/pixi: docs/features/pixi_global_manifest.md

# Pixi Global Manifest

### Motivation

`pixi global` is currently limited to imperatively managing CLI packages.
The next iteration of this feature should fulfill the following needs:

- Shareable global environments.
- Allow managing complex environments with multiple packages as dependencies
- Flexible exposure of binaries

## Design Considerations

There are a few things we wanted to keep in mind in the design:

1. **User-friendliness**: Pixi is a user focussed tool that goes beyond developers. The feature should have good error reporting and helpful documentation from the start.
2. **Keep it simple**: The CLI should be all you need to interact with the global environments.
3. **Unsurprising**: Simple commands should still behave similar to traditional package managers.
4. **Human Readable**: Any file created by this feature should be human-readable and modifiable.

> ## Manifest

Reviewer: Would this manifest be a single file or could there be more?

I would see a situation where you would want to import manifests or keep them in separate files. e.g.:

- `pixi-global-company-tools.toml`
- `pixi-global-from-my-dotfiles.toml`
- `pixi-global.toml`: Default

Reviewer 2: I like the idea of multiple pixi-globals, but what would be the discovery order or priority? 
I was thinking more like .git is storing configs,

so I can have a `pixi-global.toml` in `/projects/oss`, so If I'm running `pixi global ` under this path, this will be picked.

If I have  `pixi-global-work.toml` in `/projects/work`running `pixi global ` under this path `pixi-global-work.toml` will be picked.

Reviewer 2: do we need also a new cli command to list all pixi-global and their paths? ( like pixi global list does for packages )

Reviewer: Lets put the manifest in `~/.pixi/global/manifests/pixi-global.toml` to future proof the initial implementation.

> ## Manifest

Reviewer 2: I think it is also good to add here versioning for our further improvements or iterations
```
[manifest]
version = 1
```

Reviewer 2: If we also plan to have multiple `pixi-global` manifests, should we also add description field or author field in it?

Reviewer 2: if we plan to have lock files, do we need to think if we restrict `pixi-global` per platforms and how it will look / behave?

Author: > I think it is also good to add here versioning for our further improvements or iterations
> 
> ```
> [manifest]
> version = 1
> ```

We don't have that for pixi.toml at the moment

I think we should have it either for both or none of them

Reviewer: I think it's a good idea, because of creating an error when you can not parse it.

With `pixi.toml` we didn't because having no version is equal to version `0` and having the extra field in a very interactive file felt unnecessary. But we should add it at some point.

```toml title="pixi-global.toml"
# `python_3_10` is the name of the environment
[envs.python_3_10.dependencies.python]
spec = "3.10.*"
expose_binaries = {"python3.10"="python"} # `python` from `python_3_10` will be available as `python3.10`

[envs.python.dependencies.python]
spec = "3.11.*"
expose_binaries = "auto" # This will expose python, python3 and python3.11

[envs.python.dependencies.pip]

> spec = "*"

Reviewer: Would it make sense to do the same thing as we do in pixi where we write a string for a versioned dependency and a table for more specific dependencies. e.g.:

```toml
[envs.python.dependencies]
python = { spec = "3.10.1", expose_binaries = "auto"}
pip = "*"
```

If feel that we should allow for the table per package but also have a simple version to keep it readable unless the user edits it specifically.

Author: I am fine with that. Do we have that level of control with the toml crate we use?

Author: I misunderstood what you meant. I fully agree.

Reviewer: > Do we have that level of control

Yes, I think we do.

```

## CLI

> Install one or more packages `PACKAGE` into their own environments and expose their binaries

Reviewer 2: I think it will be also a good idea to mention that environments are auto-created based in the `[PACKAGE]` name if no --name argument is provided

```

> pixi global install [PACKAGE]...

Reviewer: Will `pixi global install starship python bat` create 3 or one environment with 3 dependencies? I could see the last one being logical as well. Or we might want to introduce the `pixi global create` and mimic the conda cli.

```

Remove environments of the named packages `PACKAGE`
```
pixi global uninstall [PACKAGE]...
```

> Resolve environment without specs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolve environment without previously defined specs
```

```

> pixi global upgrade python

Reviewer 2: what would be the spec of argument, is it env name or `[PACKAGE]` ex:
can we use `pixi global upgrade my_env_name`

Author: Good point, it is the environment name

```

> Add package `PACKAGE` to environment `ENV`.

Reviewer: I think we should use the `-e/--environment` for the name of the environment, like we do in the projects. I would be open to use the `-n/--name` as alias for our `conda` users

Author: I also like that more. Good point!

If environment `ENV` does not yet exist, then it will be created.
```

> pixi global add --name ENV PACKAGE

Reviewer: Does `add` auto expose binaries or not? and if so can I expose them from this command?

Author: It does not expose binaries. Adding an option could be discussed, but my gut feeling is that it's better to not do that.

Reviewer 2: maybe we expose binaries like `install` does also for `add`? 
and add an option not to expose binaries?

my rationale is that if I do:

`pixi global install jupyterlab` and then
`pixi global add pip ( or another binary tool ) --name jupyterlab`

pip will not be available in jupyterlab because we do not expose binaries

Author: If we went for that, `pixi global add` and `pixi global install` would behave exactly the same if `--expose` is given, but differently if it is not.

Could still work, just wanted to mention it here

Reviewer: ```
> pixi global install python
> pixi global inject pytest -e python

> pytest
command not found

> pixi global expose-binary -e python pytest:pytest
> pytest --version
x.y.z

> pixi global install python=3.9 -e python39
ERROR: python is already available as a binary from `python` global installation
please use `--expose python39:python`
> pixi global install python=3.9 -e python39 --expose python39:python
> python39
>>> exit()
> 
```
After a discussion we came to this workflow

```

> Remove package `PACKAGE` from environment `ENV`.

Reviewer 2: will it also remove entire environment if the package is the last one in that env?

Reviewer: There is nothing left after removing all packages so I think we should just remove any idea of its existence, maybe print that in the output though.

```
pixi global remove --name ENV PACKAGE
```

Update the version of one package
```
pixi global update --name python python=3.12.*
```

Set for a specific package `PACKAGE` in environment `ENV` under which `MAPPING` binaries are exposed
```

> pixi expose-bin --name ENV --package PACKAGE [MAPPING]...

Reviewer 2: I think we need to explicitly write what is the `[MAPPING]` syntax

Author: True!

```

> Ensure that the environments on the machine reflect the state in the manifest

Reviewer 2: I think we also have a situation where a manifest does not exist, but some of the envs are already created. 
What would be the behaviour `pixi global sync`? 
should we for first iteration throw and error but and later add the reverse sync 
machine --> manifest?

Author: I think every pixi global command should offer to create a new manifest. If there are environments present, pixi should offer to create a manifest that matches those environments.

Reviewer: There is not a perfect way to do it from the current environments, but using the information in the `.pixi/bin` and the `.pixi/envs/xxx/conda-meta` you can easily derive the manifest information. 

So I would be for having `pixi global sync` work, by making sure the environments are setup as defined in the manifest. Except when there is no manifest, it allows it to be generated from the current state. 

Most `pixi global` sub commands imply a `pixi global sync`.

- Users should be able to change the manifest by hand (creating or modifying (adding or removing))
- Users should be able to "export" their existing environments into the manifest, if non existing.
- The manifest is always "in sync" after an `install/remove/inject/other` global command.

```
# first time, clean computer:
> pixi global install python
# creates manifest and .pixi/envs/python
> rm `~/.pixi`
> pixi global sync
# install python in `~/.pixi/envs/python`

> rm <manifest>
> pixi global sync
# Creates manifest and add environment python to the manifest
# Interactively or not TBD.

# removed the python environment from the manifest
> vim <manifest> 
> pixi global sync
# Removes the `~/.pixi/envs/python` environment from the file system.
```

```
pixi global sync
```

### Simple workflow

Create environment `python`, install package `python=3.10.*` and expose all binaries of that package
```
pixi global install python=3.10.*
```

Upgrade all packages in environment `python`
```
pixi global upgrade python
```

Remove environment `python`
```

> pixi global remove python

Author: Yes! Also for the example afterwards

```

Create environment `python` and `pip`, install corresponding packages and expose all binaries of that packages
```
pixi global install python pip
```

Remove environments `python` and `pip`
```
pixi global remove python pip
```

### Injecting dependencies

Create environment `python`, install package `python` and expose all binaries of that package.
Then add package `hypercorn` to environment `python` but doesn't expose its binaries.

```
pixi global install python

> pixi global add --name=python hypercorn

Reviewer: Would it expose binaries if it had them?

Author: No, as explained two lines above :)

# Pixi Global Manifest

## Motivation

`pixi global` is currently limited to imperatively managing CLI packages.
The next iteration of this feature should fulfill the following needs:

- Shareable global environments.
- Managing complex environments with multiple packages as dependencies
- Flexible exposure of binaries

## Design Considerations

There are a few things we wanted to keep in mind in the design:

1. **User-friendliness**: Pixi is a user focused tool that goes beyond developers. The feature should have good error reporting and helpful documentation from the start.
2. **Keep it simple**: The CLI should be all you strictly need to interact with global environments.
3. **Unsurprising**: Simple commands should behave similar to traditional package managers.
4. **Human Readable**: Any file created by this feature should be human-readable and modifiable.

> ## Manifest

Author: I've added an introduction. Please let me know if you still miss things

> ```toml title="pixi-global.toml"

Author: I am not following, `pixi-global.toml` is kebab-case as far as I can see. What am I missing?

> ```toml title="pixi-global.toml"

Reviewer 3: Ah sorry I ment the keys in the file: `expose_binaries` for instance should be `expose-binaries`

> ```toml title="pixi-global.toml"

Author: Ah okay, sure. Fine by me :)

# The name of the environment is `python`
# It will expose python, python3 and python3.11, but not pip
[envs.python.dependencies]
python = { spec = "3.11.*", expose_binaries = "auto" }
pip = "*"

# The name of the environment is `python_3_10`
# It will expose python3.10
[envs.python_3_10.dependencies]

> python = { spec = "3.10.*", expose_binaries = { "python3.10"="python" } }

Author: It was a point of discussion. I don't have strong feelings either way.

The point we made below was that you could "auto" expose one package in the environment, but not expose another package in the environment. It could be a bit surprising if you inject `hypercorn` and suddenly have a new binary in your `PATH`.

Do you think that is either not that important or is too annoying/hard to implement anyway?

> python = { spec = "3.10.*", expose_binaries = { "python3.10"="python" } }

Reviewer 4: I think the tool should always update the list of exposed binaries in the toml file, but map those that are not exposed as

```
foo = null
```

So that the user knows which binaries are available to "expose" in the first place. 

Maybe to make it nicer in TOML we should not add them to the package section but to it's own section like so:

```toml
[envs.python_310.exposed_binaries]
python = "python"
"python@3.10" = "python3.10"
python3 = null
```

If you are in a situation like the following:

```
[envs.python_310.exposed_binaries]
python = "python"
# and nothing else
```

then pixi should, upon running `sync`

inject:

```
[envs.python_310.exposed_binaries]
python = "python"
"python3.10" = null
python3 = null
```

> python = { spec = "3.10.*", expose_binaries = { "python3.10"="python" } }

Reviewer 3: > The point we made below was that you could "auto" expose one package in the environment, but not expose another package in the environment.

My point was more that this is not tied to a package perse but more to an environment. Binaries are placed by all sorts of packages in an environment. To me it makes more sense to add this like in wolfs example:

```toml
[envs.python_310.exposed_binaries] 
python = "python"
```

It doesnt matter which package installs the binary.

> python = { spec = "3.10.*", expose_binaries = { "python3.10"="python" } }

Author: I am happy with both setting the `exposed_binary` on the environment level and mentioning all exposed binaries explicitly.

I will have a good look, how the manifest and other commands fit with that and report back.

> python = { spec = "3.10.*", expose_binaries = { "python3.10"="python" } }

Author: @wolfv TOML doesn't seem to have the concept of `null`: https://github.com/toml-lang/toml/issues/30

Do you still like your example, when the values that are `null` are instead not mentioned at all?

```

## CLI

Install one or more packages `PACKAGE` into their own environments and expose their binaries.
If no environment named `PACKAGE` exists, it will be created.
The syntax for `MAPPING` is `exposed_name=binary_name`, so for example `python3.10=python`.

```
pixi global install [--expose MAPPING] <PACKAGE>...
```

Remove environments `ENV`.
```
pixi global uninstall [ENV]...
```

Upgrade all packages in environments `ENV`
```
pixi global upgrade [ENV]...
```

Inject package `PACKAGE` into an existing environment `ENV`.
If environment `ENV` does not exist, it will return with an error.
```

> pixi global inject --environment ENV PACKAGE

Author: No, the idea was that `pixi global inject` would only be used to add libraries to existing environments without exposing potential binaries.

> pixi global inject --environment ENV PACKAGE

Reviewer 3: I can imagine that it would still be useful for injected dependencies to have exposed binaries.

> pixi global inject --environment ENV PACKAGE

Author: That's fair. I am open to that.

```

Remove package `PACKAGE` from environment `ENV`.
If that was the last package remove the whole environment and print that information in the console.
```

> pixi global remove --environment ENV PACKAGE

Author: I agree, we discussed that too.

There are multiple options I see:

`pixi global add` and `pixi global remove`: one criticism was that it isn't easy to guess how `add` and `install` differs

`pixi global inject` and `pixi global uninject`: `uninject` could also remove packages that were not injected but installed. Might be a bit surprising, I think

`pixi global inject` and `pixi global remove`: `remove` is not the opposite of `inject`, which I think is fine? `remove` can remove any packages in the environment

> pixi global remove --environment ENV PACKAGE

Reviewer 5: Also `pipx` has extra metadata for what packages it injected, so you cannot uninject what was it has not injected. I propose you do something similar and go for `inject` `uninject`. Or is that not possible?

> pixi global remove --environment ENV PACKAGE

Author: We could make it so that `uninject` only works for packages that don't set the `expose_binaries` key.

Does that make sense to you.
Do we then still need a `pixi global remove` command that can remove any packages?

> pixi global remove --environment ENV PACKAGE

Reviewer 3: I dont see the point of being able to remove "any" package. I assume that both `install` and `inject` add "top-level" dependencies, e.g. dependencies that the user directly requests when solving the environment. This results in a minimal compatible solution. Removing any other (thus transitive) dependency would break the environment. Or am I missing something.

> pixi global remove --environment ENV PACKAGE

Author: > Removing any other (thus transitive) dependency would break the environment. Or am I missing something.

This is a good point to bring up.
I wasn't talking about transitive dependencies, but about dependencies that expose binaries.

Let's take this manifest for example:

```toml
[envs.python.dependencies]
python = { spec = "3.11.*", expose_binaries = "auto" }
bat = { spec = "*", expose_binaries = "auto" }
pip = "*"
```

If I understood @tdejager correctly, `pip uninject pip` would work, but `pip uninject bat` would not.

```

Update the version of one package
```
pixi global update --environment ENV PACKAGE
```

Set for a specific package `PACKAGE` in environment `ENV` under which `MAPPING` binaries are exposed
The syntax for `MAPPING` is `exposed_name=binary_name`, so for example `python3.10=python`.
```

> pixi expose --environment ENV --package PACKAGE [MAPPING]...

Reviewer 3: Isnt the `--environment` argument required? Could we remove the flag name? (Also not required in pipx).

Author: It is required. Personally, I think required `flags` are fine.

In that specific case, making `environment` positional would be double annoying, since there can be more than one `MAPPING`. The result would be really hard to read.

Reviewer: I actually agree with Bas, but to make sure we're using standards is looked at https://clig.dev/#arguments-and-flags again and they tell you flags are better over args for future proofing.

Author: The link didn't really put me to the right place, so here again what they say:

> Prefer flags to args. It’s a bit more typing, but it makes it much clearer what is going on. It also makes it easier to make changes to how you accept input in the future. Sometimes when using args, it’s impossible to add new input without breaking existing behavior or creating ambiguity.

Reviewer 3: Mm I dont think I agree in this specific case but happy to follow guidelines.

```

Ensure that the environments on the machine reflect the state in the manifest.
The manifest is the single source of truth.
Only if there's no manifest, will the data from existing environments be used to create a manifest.
`pixi global sync` is implied by most other `pixi global` commands.
```
pixi global sync
```

List all environments, their specs and exposed binaries
```
pixi global list
```

### Simple workflow

Create environment `python`, install package `python=3.10.*` and expose all binaries of that package
```
pixi global install python=3.10.*
```

Upgrade all packages in environment `python`
```
pixi global upgrade python
```

Remove environment `python`
```
pixi global uninstall python
```

Create environment `python` and `pip`, install corresponding packages and expose all binaries of that packages
```
pixi global install python pip
```

Remove environments `python` and `pip`
```
pixi global uninstall python pip
```

### Injecting dependencies

Create environment `python`, install package `python` and expose all binaries of that package.
Then add package `hypercorn` to environment `python` but doesn't expose its binaries.

```
pixi global install python

> pixi global inject --environment=python hypercorn

Reviewer 3: Same here with the `--environment`, this flag is required so why not just remove it? e.g.:

```suggestion
pixi global inject python hypercorn
```

Author: As mentioned above, I disagree. I feel like your change motivates nicely, why that isn't necessarily an improvement.
If I read `pixi global inject python hypercorn` my first thought is not that `hypercorn` will be injected in the `python` environment, but that the `python` and `hypercorn` packages will be injected somewhere.

Reviewer 5: Also I kind of get where the confusion comes from, but otoh it does make sense that it works in that way. The first time with pipx it gave me a small pause, but after that I was instantly used to it :)

Author: I don't mind `--into-env` in general.

Two counterarguments:
- the name `--into-env` would be a bit weird for something like `pixi global remove/uninject`
- we also use `--environment` for pixi

Both arguments go into the direction that I expect consistency to help users.

Reviewer 3: But can we then please have the alias `-e` and `--env` (environment is a crappy word to type)

Reviewer 2: Why do we need `--into-env` for `remove` or `inject`? 
I think `--into-env` it's a good alternative for `--environment`

Author: I am even happy to only add `-e` and `--env`.
If someone objects to that, let's go with `-e`, `--env` and `--environment`.
But if we go for the latter, please let's also add the alias for the other pixi commands.

What do you say @ruben-arts?

```

Update package `cryptography` (a dependency of `hypercorn`) in environment `python`

```
pixi update --environment python cryptography
```

Then remove `hypercorn` again.
```
pixi global remove --environment=python hypercorn
```

### Specifying which binaries to expose

> Make a new environment `python_3_10` with package `python=3.10` and no exposed binaries

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Make a new environment `python_3_10` with package `python=3.10` and expose the `python` executable as `python3.10`.
```

Author: Thanks!

```
pixi global install --environment python_3_10 --expose "python3.10=python" python=3.10
```

Now `python3.10` is available.

Run the following in order to expose `python` from environment `python_3_10` as `python310` instead.

```
pixi global expose --environment python_3_10 --package python "python310=python"
```

Now `python310` is available, but `python3.10` isn't anymore.

!!! note

    It should be possible to infer `--package`, let's discuss if there are edge cases to consider.

### Syncing

Most `pixi global` sub commands imply a `pixi global sync`.

- Users should be able to change the manifest by hand (creating or modifying (adding or removing))
- Users should be able to "export" their existing environments into the manifest, if non-existing.
- The manifest is always "in sync" after `install`/`remove`/`inject`/`other global command`.

First time, clean computer.
Running the following creates manifest and `~/.pixi/envs/python`.
```
pixi global install python
```

Delete `~/.pixi` and syncing, should add environment `python` again as described in the manifest
```

> rm `~/.pixi`

Reviewer 3: Wont this also delete the manifest?

Author: Yes, my bad.
This should be `~/.pixi/envs`.
Fixed!

pixi global sync
```

If there's no manifest, but existing environments, pixi will create a manifest that matches your current environments.
It is to be decided whether the user should be asked if they want an empty manifest instead, or if it should always import the data from the environments.
```
rm <manifest>
pixi global sync
```

If we remove the python environment from the manifest, running `pixi global sync` will also remove the `~/.pixi/envs/python` environment from the file system.
```
vim <manifest>
pixi global sync
```

## Open Questions

### Should we version the manifest?

Something like:

```
[manifest]
version = 1
```

We still have to figure out which existing programs do something similar and how they benefit from it.

### Multiple manifests

We could go for one default manifest, but also parse other manifests in the same directory.
In order to modify those with the `CLI` one would have to add an option `--manifest` to select the correct one.

- pixi-global.toml: Default

> - pixi-global-company-tools.toml
> - pixi-global-from-my-dotfiles.toml

Reviewer 3: Similar to `.env` I would use a dot seperator. 

```suggestion
- pixi-global.company-tools.toml
- pixi-global.from-my-dotfiles.toml
```

Author: Sounds good to me!

# Pixi Global Manifest

## Motivation

`pixi global` is currently limited to imperatively managing CLI packages.
The next iteration of this feature should fulfill the following needs:

- Shareable global environments.
- Managing complex environments with multiple packages as dependencies
- Flexible exposure of binaries

## Design Considerations

There are a few things we wanted to keep in mind in the design:

1. **User-friendliness**: Pixi is a user focused tool that goes beyond developers. The feature should have good error reporting and helpful documentation from the start.
2. **Keep it simple**: The CLI should be all you strictly need to interact with global environments.
3. **Unsurprising**: Simple commands should behave similar to traditional package managers.
4. **Human Readable**: Any file created by this feature should be human-readable and modifiable.

## Manifest

> The global environments and exposed will be managed by a human-readable manifest.

Reviewer 4: missing word (binaries?)

Author: Yes, thanks. Will fix that.

2. **Keep it simple**: The CLI should be all you strictly need to interact with global environments.
3. **Unsurprising**: Simple commands should behave similar to traditional package managers.
4. **Human Readable**: Any file created by this feature should be human-readable and modifiable.

## Manifest

The global environments and exposed binaries will be managed by a human-readable manifest.
This manifest will stick to conventions set by `pixi.toml` where possible.
Among other things it will be written in the TOML format, be named `pixi-global.toml` and be placed at `~/.pixi/manifests/pixi-global.toml`.
The motivation for the location is discussed [further below](#multiple-manifests)

```toml title="pixi-global.toml"
# The name of the environment is `python`
# If the `envs.ENV.expose` key is missing, all binaries of `envs.ENV.package` will be exposed
# It will expose python, python3 and python3.11, but not pip
[envs.python]
package = { python = "3.11.*" }

[envs.python.injected]
pip = "*"

# The name of the environment is `python-3-10`
# It will expose python as python3.10
[envs.python-3-10]

> package = { python = "3.10.*" }

Reviewer 4: This is a map, but can only have one entry?

# It will expose python, python3 and python3.11, but not pip
[envs.python.dependencies]
python = "3.11.*"
pip = "*"

[envs.python.exposed]
python = "python"
python3 = "python3"
"python3.11" = "python3.11"

# The name of the environment is `python_3_10`
# It will expose python3.10
[envs.python_3_10.dependencies]
python = "3.10.*"

[envs.python_3_10.exposed]
"python3.10" = "python"

```

## CLI

Install one or more packages `PACKAGE` and expose their binaries.
If `--environment` has been given, all packages will be installed in the same environment.
If the environment already exists, the command will return with an error.
`--expose` can be given if `--environment` is given as well or if only a single `PACKAGE` will be installed.
The syntax for `MAPPING` is `exposed_name=binary_name`, so for example `python3.10=python`.

```
pixi global install [--expose MAPPING] [--environment ENV] <PACKAGE>...
```

Remove environments `ENV`.
```
pixi global uninstall <ENV>...
```

Update `PACKAGE` if `--package` is given. If not, all packages in environments `ENV` will be updated.
If the update leads to binaries being removed, it will offer to remove the mappings.

> If the user declines the update process will stop.

Reviewer 2: I think we need to also have some option like --yes, so it is possible to run it in non-interactive mode ( for example in CI ) .

this should be applied also for pixi global remove ( becuase it also have interactivity there )

Author: Sounds good, will add `--assume-yes/-y`

Author: Ah no, just checked, a simple yes option is not enough here.

I've added a point to open questions

Reviewer 2: Why --yes will not be enough here?

Author: Yeah, it might be enough in the end.

I would still prefer if we could think about it more, we don't have to decide on that already.

We could for example add two flags. One for saying yes for deleting mappings, and one for adding.

Author: You convinced me, will add the flag

If the update leads to binaries being added, it will offer for each binary individually to expose it.
```
pixi global update [--package PACKAGE] <ENV>...
```

Add one or more packages `PACKAGE` into an existing environment `ENV`.
If environment `ENV` does not exist, it will return with an error.
Without `--expose` no binary will be exposed.
If you don't mention a spec like `python=3.8.*`, the spec will be unconstrained with `*`

```
pixi global add --environment ENV [--expose MAPPING] <PACKAGE>...
```

Remove package `PACKAGE` from environment `ENV`.
If that was the last package remove the whole environment and print that information in the console.
If this leads to binaries being removed, it will offer to remove the mappings.
If the user declines the remove process will stop.
```
pixi global remove --environment ENV PACKAGE
```

> Add one or more `MAPPING` for environment `ENV` which describe which binaries are exposed

Reviewer 2: I think it would be nice to mention the syntax of mapping for this

Author: Done

```
pixi expose add --environment ENV  <MAPPING>...
```

Remove one or more exposed `BINARY` from environment `ENV`
```

> pixi expose remove --environment ENV <BINARY>...

Reviewer 2: we should prefix expose with global

Author: Nice find
